Added a tutorial demonstrating how to integrate TalkJS with Blazor (#15)
talkjs/tutorials: how-to-add-chat-to-a-blazor-app-with-talkjs/how-to-add-chat-to-a-blazor-app-with-talkjs.md

# How to add chat to a Blazor Web app with TalkJS 

Do you want to quickly set up a chat in your Blazor application in minutes? If yes is your answer, then you’re in the right place.

<figure class="kg-image-card">
  <img class="kg-image" src="1-demo.gif" alt="Two users conversing in Blazor TalkJS"/>
  <figcaption>Blazor application with TalkJS</figcaption>
</figure>
<br/>
<br/>

In this tutorial we’ll demonstrate how to add a Chat API to a Blazor Web Application using TalkJS. TalkJS is a chat API that offers lots of features and is easy to integrate. Today, we are going to talk about integrating TalkJS to a Blazor application. Without further ado, let’s begin.

This tutorial assumes that you have knowledge of Blazor, .NET and also that you’re familiar with the basics of Javascript, HTML and CSS. 

To follow along, you’ll need:

> -	A [TalkJS account](https://talkjs.com/dashboard/login). TalkJS provides a ready-to-use chat client for your application. Your account gives you access to TalkJS's free development environment.

Reviewer: As with the example code, add .NET as a prerequisite

-	A Blazor Web App in which you would like to add a chat to.

This Blazor application is created using the Blazor Web App template in Visual Studio, specifically Interactive server with Per page/component interactivity. The steps of creating one can be found in this [Microsoft Blazor tutorial link](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/aspnet/blazor-tutorial/create). 

If you already have an existing application created using the Blazor Web App template, you can still follow along and tweak the render modes depending on where your component displaying the chat will be.

> We’ll build up the chat step by step in the following sections. If you would rather see the complete example code, see the [GitHub repo -NOT UPDATED](https://github.com/MagnusMutai/tutorials/edit/main/how-to-add-chat-to-a-blazor-app-with-talkjs) for this tutorial. 

Reviewer: Reminder to us to update link before publishing

                chatbox.mount(document.getElementById('talkjs-container'));
            }
        }

    </script>

    @* Initialize TalkJS *@
    @* Minified snippet to load TalkJS without delaying your page *@
    @* This code needs to be below the Talk.Wrapper Code above for it work appropriately *@
    <script>
        (function (t, a, l, k, j, s) {
            s = a.createElement('script'); s.async = 1; s.src = 'https://cdn.talkjs.com/talk.js'; a.head.appendChild(s)
                ; k = t.Promise; t.Talk = {
                    v: 3, ready: {
                        then: function (f) {
                            if (k) return new k(function (r, e) { l.push([f, r, e]) }); l
                                .push([f])
                        }, catch: function () { return k && new k() }, c: l
                    }
                };
        })(window, document, []);
    </script>

</body>
```
# Create a user model

That’s enough JavaScript for now. 

For the sake of simplicity, we are going write the rest of the C# code and HTML to display the component under the default `Home.razor` page.

> Now, add a data model of a typical participant in a TalkJS conversation. To do so, create a class named `User` as shown below and add the given properties.

Reviewer: Suggestion to add a link to the `User` docs here:

```suggestion
Now, add a data model of a typical [user](https://talkjs.com/docs/Reference/Concepts/Users/) in a TalkJS conversation. To do so, create a class named `User` as shown below and add the given properties.
```

```c#
@code {
    //Model for a typical chat participant
    public class User
    {
        public long Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public string Email { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public string PhotoUrl { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public string WelcomeMessage { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    }
}
```

# Create User instances

Still under `Home.razor`, we are going to create instances of the User class defined above. After that, we are going to assign them to properties of the User type.

> First, override the `OnInitializedAsync` Blazor component lifecycle method and define the relevant code to create user instances inside the method. The example code is shown below.

Reviewer: Here it needs a brief explanation of how you're hard-coding some users, but in a real application this would come from the database

        public string WelcomeMessage { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    }
}
```

Run the program, and you should have a similar output in your browser:

<figure class="kg-image-card">
  <img class="kg-image" src="3-talkjs-blazor.png" alt="Conversation between two users in Blazor"/>
  <figcaption>Blazor application is now integrated with TalkJS</figcaption>
</figure>

# Next steps

In this guide, you've added powerful user-to-user chat to your Blazor app. You now have a starting point to try out all the features TalkJS offers. For example, you could create a new UI theme in the [Theme Editor](https://talkjs.com/features/themes), customize your chat with [action buttons](https://talkjs.com/docs/Features/Customizations/Action_Buttons_Links/) or HTML panels, or enable [email notifications](https://talkjs.com/docs/Features/Notifications/Email_Notifications/).

If you want to learn more about TalkJS, here are some good places to start:

- The [TalkJS Docs](https://talkjs.com/docs/) help you get started with TalkJS.
- [TalkJS tutorials](https://talkjs.com/resources/tag/tutorials/) provide how-to guides for many common TalkJS use cases.

> - The [talkjs-examples Github repo](https://github.com/talkjs/talkjs-examples) has larger complete examples that demonstrate how to integrate with other libraries and frameworks. For the full example code for this tutorial, see our [Blazor example NOT UPDATED](https://github.com/talkjs/talkjs-examples).

Reviewer: Reminder to us to update link before publishing

- AppId – This is found on your TalkJS Dashboard after creating an account. 
- Me – A User instance of yourself.
- Other – User instance of the other person in the conversation. 
- Conversation Id. 

```C#
@code {
    protected User Me { get; set; }
    protected User Other { get; set; }

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {
        // Populate users
        // In a real world application, this would come from the database
        // First participant (you):
        Me = new User()
            {
                Id = 123456,
                Name = "Alice",
                Email = "alice@example.com",
                PhotoUrl = "https://talkjs.com/images/avatar-1.jpg",
                WelcomeMessage = "Hey there! How are you? :-)",
            };
        // Second participant (the user you're chatting with):
        Other = new User()
            {
                Id = 754321,
                Name = "Michael",
                Email =  "michael@example.com",
                PhotoUrl = "https://talkjs.com/images/avatar-4.jpg",
                WelcomeMessage = "Hola!",
            };

        StateHasChanged();
    }

>     private const string AppId = "<APP_ID>";   // Get your App Id from your TalkJS Dashboard after creating an account

Author: If it's going to remove the syntax highlight, I don't think it's a good idea. People will run away when they see a sheet of plain text code.

>     private const string AppId = "<APP_ID>";   // Get your App Id from your TalkJS Dashboard after creating an account

Reviewer 2: Fair point, let's keep it as-is 👌
